Updated Joining the Testnet Docs (#123)
oasislabs/docs: src/operators/joining-the-testnet.md

# Joining the Testnet

This guide will cover setting up your nodes on the Public Testnet. There is some
assumption of knowledge on the use of basic command line tools.

::: tip NOTE
If you joined the Testnet prior to 11/26, use the following steps to upgrade:
1. [Stop your node and wipe state (keep node identity)](./maintenance/wiping-node-state.md)

> 

Reviewer: extra newline

This guide will cover setting up your nodes on the Public Testnet. There is some
assumption of knowledge on the use of basic command line tools and docker.

::: tip NOTE
If you joined the Testnet prior to 11/26, use the following steps to upgrade:

> 1. [Stop your node and wipe state](./maintenance/wiping-node-state.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Stop your node and wipe state (keep node identity)](./maintenance/wiping-node-state.md)

1. [Download the current genesis file and `oasis-node`](./current-testnet-parameters.md)

> 1. [Update your node config](#configuring-the-oasis-node)

Reviewer 2: would be great if we could somehow highlight the config changes (since are pretty minimal) (https://github.com/oasislabs/docs/pull/123#discussion_r350845083)

Reviewer 3: Yeah, let's do this.

> 1. Restart your node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Start your node
```

(step 1 stops it :P )

You can make this directory structure by calling the following command:

> ```bash

Reviewer: /serverdir/node created with default permissions in this invocation

#### Configuring the Oasis Node

::: warning NOTE

> If you deployed with us on 2019-11-13, the configuration has changed. Please

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you deployed a node on the 2019-11-13 Public Testnet, the configuration has changed. Please
```

    # The external_address option is used when registering this node to the
    # network. If you are using a sentry node then this should be the public
    # ip of the sentry node.
    external_address: tcp://[[ external_address ]]:26656

  db:
    backend: boltdb
  debug:
    addr_book_lenient: False
  # You can add additional seeds to this list of seed addresses if you know of
  # additional seeds
  seed:

>     - "[[ seed_node_address ]]"

Reviewer 2: in https://github.com/oasislabs/docs/pull/119/files we kept the curly braces within the config, but just removed them above in the explanation part ^ (e.g. see https://github.com/oasislabs/docs/pull/119/files#diff-77fb5664793b311a7461025fab00af18R65)

I don't have strong preference, but we should try to be somewhat consistent

Author: Ah ya I'll make it consistent. That's much better :)

```

> #### Ensuring proper permissions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Ensuring Proper Permissions
```

    backend: boltdb
  debug:
    addr_book_lenient: False
  # You can add additional seeds to this list of seed addresses if you know of
  # additional seeds

>   seed:

Reviewer 2: it might be useful to have this listed somewhere as a change from the previous version of the config (so that operators can just update the existing config, and have to not search by themselves on what are the changes from the old one). Maybe a short changelog paragraph on the `current-testnet-parameters.md`  page

    backend: boltdb
  debug:
    addr_book_lenient: False
  # You can add additional seeds to this list of seed addresses if you know of
  # additional seeds
  seed:
    - "{{ seed_node_address }}"
```

#### Ensuring Proper Permissions

Only the owner of the process that runs node should have access to the files in
the directory. We suggest running the following to remove all non-owner
read/write/execute permissions:

```bash
chmod -R g-r,g-w,g-x,o-r,o-w,o-x /serverdir
```

> However just so it's clear, the following permissions are expected by the

Reviewer 4: It could be useful here to say exactly why we require these permissions to answer those who object to them.

Author: Ah ya I'll add something

## Staking and Registering

::: tip NOTE
This won't be necessary if your Entity is in the genesis file.
:::

::: warning CAUTION

> If your node is NOT caught up to the network you will most likely fail to submit

Reviewer 4: Is there something that people can do here to see if their node is caught up?

Author: Eh... not at the moment other than ask on the channel. This is something I made an issue for

Reviewer: ```
oasis-node control is-synced
```

Author: AH neato... i was wondering what that was... wasn't sure if it meant something else

    --stake.escrow.account $ACCOUNT_ID \

>     --stake.transaction.amount 100000000000000000000 \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    --stake.amount 100000000000000000000 \
```

>     --stake.transaction.file $OUTPUT_TX_FILE_PATH \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    --transaction.file $OUTPUT_TX_FILE_PATH \
```

number. This is actually equivalent to 100 tokens on the Testnet as each unit
value used to track the account balance is 1x10^-18 tokens.

### Generating Entity Registration Transaction

After you submit your escrow account, you'll need to register your entity so

> that your node register properly. You could do this process _after_ you

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
that your node registers properly. You could do this process _after_ you
```

submit the escrow transaction, however, to save steps we prepare everything
before hand.

```bash
$ oasis-node registry entity gen_register \
  --genesis.file $GENESIS_FILE_PATH \

>   --datadir $ENTITY_DIR_PATH \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  --entity $ENTITY_DIR_PATH \
```

  --transaction.file $OUTPUT_REGISTER_TX_FILE_PATH \
  --transaction.fee.gas 1000 \
  --transaction.fee.amount 1 \

>   --transaction.nonce 0

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  --transaction.nonce 1
```

```

* `$ENTITY_DIR_PATH` - For this guide this would be `/localhostdir/entity/`
* `$OUTPUT_REGISTER_TX_FILE_PATH` - This is where you wish to output the signed
  transaction file. For this guide we will use
  `/localhostdir/signed-register.tx`

### Submitting Your Transactions on the `server`

To complete the staking process we need to submit your escrow and registry
transactions:

1. Copy the file `/localhostdir/signed-escrow.tx` on the `localhost` to
   `/serverdir/signed-escrow.tx` on the `server`.
2. Copy the file `/localhostdir/signed-register.tx` on the `localhost` to
   `/serverdir/signed-register.tx` on the `server`.
3. Call `oasis-node` like so:

  If you're using docker use:

  ```bash
  $ docker exec -it oasis_node /bin/bash
  $ oasis-node consensus submit_tx \
    --transaction.file /serverdir/signed-escrow.tx \
    -a unix:/serverdir/node/internal.sock
  $ oasis-node consensus submit_tx \

>     --entity.transaction.file /serverdir/signed-register.tx \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    --transaction.file /serverdir/signed-register.tx \
```

    -a unix:/serverdir/node/internal.sock
  ```

>   Without docker:

Reviewer 3: The docker vs non-docker steps appear to be identical now except for the `docker exec -it oasis_node /bin/bash` step? In that case, we should simplify.

Author: Ya... I just wanted to disambiguate. I honestly wanna get rid of all the docker stuff and just tell people to use the binaries

Reviewer 5: Yes, that would be nice :+1:

number. This is actually equivalent to 100 tokens on the Testnet as each unit
value used to track the account balance is 1x10^-18 tokens.

### Generating Entity Registration Transaction

After you submit your escrow account, you'll need to register your entity so

> that it your node register properly. You could do this process _after_ you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that your node register properly. You could do this process _after_ you
```

submit the escrow transaction, however, to save steps we prepare everything
before hand.

```bash

> $ oasis-node registry entity gen_register \

Reviewer 6: This now (as of oasislabs/oasis-core#2399) requires (this holds for ALL `gen_*` subcommands):
* `--genesis.file`
* `--transaction.fee.amount`
* `--transaction.fee.gas`
* `--transaction.nonce`

  --datadir $ENTITY_DIR_PATH \

>   --entity.transaction.file $OUTPUT_REGISTER_TX_FILE_PATH

Reviewer 6: This has changed:
```suggestion
  --transaction.file $OUTPUT_REGISTER_TX_FILE_PATH
```

```

* `$ENTITY_DIR_PATH` - For this guide this would be `/localhostdir/entity/`
* `$OUTPUT_REGISTER_TX_FILE_PATH` - This is where you wish to output the signed
  transaction file. For this guide we will use
  `/localhostdir/signed-register.tx`

### Submitting Your Transactions on the `server`

To complete the staking process we need to submit your escrow transaction:

1. Copy the file `/localhostdir/signed-escrow.tx` on the `localhost` to
   `/serverdir/signed-escrow.tx` on the `server`.
2. Copy the file `/localhostdir/signed-register.tx` on the `localhost` to
   `/serverdir/signed-register.tx` on the `server`.
3. Call `oasis-node` like so:

  If you're using docker use:

  ```bash
  $ docker exec -it oasis_node /bin/bash
  $ oasis-node stake account submit \
    --stake.transaction.file /serverdir/signed-escrow.tx \
    -a unix:/serverdir/node/internal.sock

>   $ oasis-node registry entity submit \

Reviewer 2: I think this doesn't exist anymore: https://github.com/oasislabs/oasis-core/pull/2399/files#diff-1d7e20f1be65184f2217e392dfd93d21L82

There is now a `submit_tx` command: https://github.com/oasislabs/oasis-core/pull/2399/files#diff-062581f10c6734515d12c481cc23d16eR30 

Probably other changes are needed as well cc @kostko

Reviewer 6: Yes, what @ptrus said holds for all `submit` methods. There are no more command-specific submission methods, there is only a common one called `oasis-node consensus submit_tx`. See `--help` and CLI E2E tests for arguments.
